All right.
So my name is Sadie
Chantler I'm the 6 to 8 later margin
teacher at Port Elgin Regional School
I'm Stefan Martin I'm the 6 7
8 math teacher on the English side.
And up until halfway through this year
is also acting vice principal.
We'll be talking to you today
about the project
based learning program at our school.
Yeah.
So if you come and visit us and check out
our PBL blog, what you might see is that,
you'll see a mixture of 5 to 8 students,
in every class.
So it's truly,
a multi age setting where we combine
our students from grades 5 to 8
and we augment the curriculum with topics
that,
we find very engaging
and our students find very engaging.
So they'll go for eight weeks,
with a given topic that they've selected.
So we will present to them
the eight topics or seven topics
depending on how many are offered,
at the beginning of the term.
And the students will make
their selections
based on the descriptions of that topic.
And then for the next eight weeks,
they will be with that teacher,
for one hour every morning.
And it was really designed,
five years ago when we started this
as a way of getting kids to the school
and getting kids engaged.
So we start our morning off
with this, this choice activity.
Yeah.
So in terms of assessment,
it will look different in each PBL block
depending on what the teacher's comfort
level and skill set is,
but something that's common between
all of the PBL blocks is the reflections
that kids are doing.
Whether that be daily or weekly,
based on what they learned, how
they feel about it, what things went well,
what things need to improve, and,
the goals that they, are looking
to achieve throughout their PBL block.
Another thing that's also common
to all of the PBL blocks
and is probably the biggest part
of our assessment, is our,
showcase that the students
do at the end of each block.
So they create a five minute presentation
to talk about what they learned
over the course of eight weeks,
as well as the answer to the big question.
And that big question is the driving
force behind each PBL block,
the big theme, the the big idea,
whatever you want to call it.
But they're answering that question
in that showcase, and that showcase,
they're doing that presentation.
They're doing it to the community.
So parents, other community members,
people, business
owners in the community as well as people
from district are invited in
to come and watch these presentations.
And let's talk about that showcase
for a second.
Two, because I don't know about you, but
I really like the way it's it's come on.
Absolutely. Yeah.
Because we we would
we didn't always do it like that.
Originally our showcase five years ago
was just the students would be presenting
to each other and segment them
into like a third or a half of the kids,
and they would present
to the other students in small groups.
And what we found is
it was a lot of traffic.
It was a lot of behavior management.
It was a lot of management on our part.
And it was a less of getting to enjoy
what the kids have learned
and getting to see the fruits
of what they've done.
And when you're looking at engagement,
that's what we want to see
is the engagement rather than, you know,
the management piece.
So we moved to this
like community based one.
And, I find has gone
the we've only tried twice,
but I find it's gone a lot smoother, a lot
smoother. Yeah, yeah.
And the community members seem
they like it.
The, the, the parents come in
and they get to see what the kids
have been doing for eight weeks.
So it's been a
nice little outreach piece.
And on our end, I think it helps us
with the assessment piece.
So instead of trying to run around
and see all of the individual
presentations that are happening,
we're able to take our time
and and take a look at them.
But also give them the feedback
during the preparation
part of the president of the showcase
presentation.
So yeah, yeah.
And from an administration lens as well.
And I know our administrators
really like this
piece is that it really holds
us accountable to In the Block
as educators to make sure
that our assessment is is top notch.
Throughout.
We've got the formative assessment,
throughout the PBL.
We've got the summative at the end
and in the showcase.
But in order to do a good showcase,
they have to prepare the showcase.
They have to practice the showcase.
So it really it really keeps us
accountable for that planning piece.
And it helps us to create
better blocks, which I found even though
I've I've run archery for five years,
I've now developed a much better block
now than I did five years ago.
So that's a huge piece to absolutely.